docs/getting-started/docker/images.md, before:

# Images

!!! tip "Pre-build images"

    Open Voice OS provides pre-build images available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/smartgic). These images are referenced by default within the `docker-compose.*.yml` files.

Open Voice OS is a sofisticated piece of software which has several [components](../../about/glossary/components.md). These components have been split into containers to provide a better isolation and a [microservices](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microservices) approach.

!!! info "GUI images size"

    The GUI container images are larger than the other images as they need many QT libraries and [GStreamer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GStreamer) plugins in order to provide all the features supported by the voice assistant.

## Supported CPU architectures

Container images could be used for different CPU architectures using the [multi-platform images](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-platform/) feature.

| CPU architecture                                                 | Description                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `amd64`   | Such as AMD and Intel processors                                               |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `aarch64` | Such as Raspberry Pi 64-bit SoC                                                |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `armv7l`   | Such as Raspberry Pi 32-bit SoC (_not supported because of `onnxruntime`[^1]_) |

## Containers

The list below is not exhaustive and doesn't mention anything about skill containers, but it is a fair list of the main components currently supported in [ovos-docker](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-docker).

| Container            | Description                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ovos_messagebus`    | [Read more about ovos-messagebus](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-messagebus)         |
| `ovos_phal`          | [Read more about ovos-phal](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-phal)                     |
| `ovos_phal_admin`    | [Read more about ovos-phal admin variant](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-phal)       |
| `ovos_audio`         | [Read more about ovos-audio](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-audio)                   |
| `ovos_listener`      | [Read more about ovos-listener](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-listener)             |
| `ovos_core`          | [Read more about ovos-core](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-core)                     |
| `ovos_cli`           | [Read more about ovos-cli](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-cli)                       |
| `ovos_gui_websocket` | [Read more about ovos-gui-messagebus](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-gui-messagebus) |
| `ovos_gui`           | [Read more about ovos-gui](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-gui)                       |
| `hivemind_listener`  | [Read more about hivemind-listener](../../about/glossary/terms.md#hivemind)                   |
| `hivemind_cli`       | [Read more about hivemind-cli](../../about/glossary/terms.md#hivemind)                        |

## Tags

Container image tags allows you to deploy a specific version of Open Voice OS, it could be an untested version based on nigthly build or a stable version.

| Image tag                                                       | Description                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `alpha`  | Nightly build based on alpha releases from [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `0.0.8a` | Nightly build based on alpha releases from [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `stable`  | Build at every new stable release                                    |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `0.0.8`   | Build at every new stable release                                    |

!!! warning "Stable release"

    As Open Voice OS doesn't have a stable release for version `0.0.8` which has been designed to work with containers, there is no `stable` or `0.0.8` tags available yet.

## Volumes

To allow data persistence, Docker or Podman volumes are required, they will prevent downloading the requirements everytime the containers are re-created.

| Volume                  | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ovos_gui_file`         | Share QML files from skills between the GUI message bus and the GUI client                                                       |
| `ovos_listener_records` | [Wake words](../../about/glossary/terms.md#wake-word) and [utterances](../../about/glossary/terms.md#utterance) recorded samples |
| `ovos_models`           | Models downloaded by `precise-lite` wake word plugin                                                                             |
| `ovos_nltk`             | [Punkt](https://www.askpython.com/python-modules/nltk-punkt) Python package required by [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/index.html)  |
| `ovos_tts_cache`        | `.wav` and `.pho` files acting as cache from TTS transcription                                                                   |
| `ovos_vosk`             | Models downloaded by [VOSK](https://alphacephei.com/vosk/) during the initial boot                                               |

`ovos_listener_records` allows you to store samples of wake words and utterances which could help you to build or improve models.

!!! info "Enable samples recording"

    By default the recording features are disabled, `"record_wake_words": true` and `"save_utterances": true` will have to be added to the `listener` section of `mycroft.conf` to enable these capabilities.

    ```json title="~/ovos/config/mycroft.conf"
    {
    "listener": {
        "record_wake_words": true,
        "save_utterances": true
      }
    }
    ```

    But first thing's first you need to have Open Voice OS's containers up and running. [Follow the guide](./installation/requirements.md).

[^1]: <https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/15337>

Commit message:

[images] Add information about ovos_local_state volume

docs/getting-started/docker/images.md, after:

# Images

!!! tip "Pre-build images"

    Open Voice OS provides pre-build images available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/u/smartgic). These images are referenced by default within the `docker-compose.*.yml` files.

Open Voice OS is a sofisticated piece of software which has several [components](../../about/glossary/components.md). These components have been split into containers to provide a better isolation and a [microservices](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microservices) approach.

!!! info "GUI images size"

    The GUI container images are larger than the other images as they need many QT libraries and [GStreamer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GStreamer) plugins in order to provide all the features supported by the voice assistant.

## Supported CPU architectures

Container images could be used for different CPU architectures using the [multi-platform images](https://docs.docker.com/build/building/multi-platform/) feature.

| CPU architecture                                                 | Description                                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `amd64`   | Such as AMD and Intel processors                                               |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `aarch64` | Such as Raspberry Pi 64-bit SoC                                                |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `armv7l`   | Such as Raspberry Pi 32-bit SoC (_not supported because of `onnxruntime`[^1]_) |

## Containers

The list below is not exhaustive and doesn't mention anything about skill containers, but it is a fair list of the main components currently supported in [ovos-docker](https://github.com/OpenVoiceOS/ovos-docker).

| Container            | Description                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ovos_messagebus`    | [Read more about ovos-messagebus](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-messagebus)         |
| `ovos_phal`          | [Read more about ovos-phal](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-phal)                     |
| `ovos_phal_admin`    | [Read more about ovos-phal admin variant](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-phal)       |
| `ovos_audio`         | [Read more about ovos-audio](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-audio)                   |
| `ovos_listener`      | [Read more about ovos-listener](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-listener)             |
| `ovos_core`          | [Read more about ovos-core](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-core)                     |
| `ovos_cli`           | [Read more about ovos-cli](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-cli)                       |
| `ovos_gui_websocket` | [Read more about ovos-gui-messagebus](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-gui-messagebus) |
| `ovos_gui`           | [Read more about ovos-gui](../../about/glossary/components.md#ovos-gui)                       |
| `hivemind_listener`  | [Read more about hivemind-listener](../../about/glossary/terms.md#hivemind)                   |
| `hivemind_cli`       | [Read more about hivemind-cli](../../about/glossary/terms.md#hivemind)                        |

## Tags

Container image tags allows you to deploy a specific version of Open Voice OS, it could be an untested version based on nigthly build or a stable version.

| Image tag                                                       | Description                                                          |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `alpha`  | Nightly build based on alpha releases from [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) |
| :material-check-circle-outline:{ style="color: green"} `0.0.8a` | Nightly build based on alpha releases from [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `stable`  | Build at every new stable release                                    |
| :material-close-circle-outline:{ style="color: red" } `0.0.8`   | Build at every new stable release                                    |

!!! warning "Stable release"

    As Open Voice OS doesn't have a stable release for version `0.0.8` which has been designed to work with containers, there is no `stable` or `0.0.8` tags available yet.

## Volumes

To allow data persistence, Docker or Podman volumes are required, they will prevent downloading the requirements everytime the containers are re-created.

| Volume                  | Description                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `ovos_gui_file`         | Share QML files from skills between the GUI message bus and the GUI client                                                       |
| `ovos_listener_records` | [Wake words](../../about/glossary/terms.md#wake-word) and [utterances](../../about/glossary/terms.md#utterance) recorded samples |
| `ovos_local_state`      | Moslty used to store logs from the different components                                                                          |
| `ovos_models`           | Models downloaded by `precise-lite` wake word plugin                                                                             |
| `ovos_nltk`             | [Punkt](https://www.askpython.com/python-modules/nltk-punkt) Python package required by [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/index.html)  |
| `ovos_tts_cache`        | `.wav` and `.pho` files acting as cache from TTS transcription                                                                   |
| `ovos_vosk`             | Models downloaded by [VOSK](https://alphacephei.com/vosk/) during the initial boot                                               |

`ovos_listener_records` allows you to store samples of wake words and utterances which could help you to build or improve models.

!!! info "Enable samples recording"

    By default the recording features are disabled, `"record_wake_words": true` and `"save_utterances": true` will have to be added to the `listener` section of `mycroft.conf` to enable these capabilities.

    ```json title="~/ovos/config/mycroft.conf"
    {
    "listener": {
        "record_wake_words": true,
        "save_utterances": true
      }
    }
    ```

    But first thing's first you need to have Open Voice OS's containers up and running. [Follow the guide](./installation/requirements.md).

[^1]: <https://github.com/microsoft/onnxruntime/issues/15337>
